=== 500 Server is not configured for SSHFTP connections. ===
If you get this error:
<pre>
error: globus_ftp_client: the server responded with an error
500 Server is not configured for SSHFTP connections.
</pre>

Try running /etc/grid-security/sshftp directly on the server. If it doesn't exist, then there's your problem.

=== Hanging Connections ===
Just try a simple command first:
 globus-url-copy -list sshftp://root@server.com/etc/

If it hangs, you probably have a server side firewall blocking it. See [[GridFTP Firewalls]]

=== error: globus_ftp_client: an invalid value for url was used ===
 globus-url-copy -list sshftp://root@server.com/etc/
 sshftp://root@server.com/etc/
 error: globus_ftp_client: an invalid value for url was used

This means that you don't have /etc/grid-security/gridftp-ssh

===  error: globus_xio: System error in access check: Permission denied ===
 # globus-url-copy -list sshftp://root@server.com/etc/
 sshftp://root@server.com/etc/
 error: globus_xio: System error in access check: Permission denied
 globus_xio: A system call failed: Permission denied

This means that /etc/grid-security/gridftp-ssh probably doesn't have the right permissions. Try chmod +x /etc/grid-security/gridftp-ssh

=== globus_xio: An end of file occurred ===
 # globus-url-copy -list sshftp://root@server.com/etc/
 sshftp://server.com/etc/
 error: an end-of-file was reached
 globus_xio: An end of file occurred

This might mean that the globus-gridftp-server binary is not installed. Did you run "apt-get install globus-gridftp-server-progs" ? It also might mean that sshftp or gridftp-ssh don't run for some reason. Make sure they both run.

[[Category:GridFTP]]