[[FreeNX]] can do load balancing between slave servers. It can do random, round robin, or load. Like this in your node.conf:
<pre>
LOAD_BALANCE_SERVERS="server1 server2"

# The following load_balance_algorithms are available at the moment:
#
# "load", "round-robin", "random"
#
# For "load" you need a script called nxcheckload in PATH_BIN.
# 
# A sample script, which you can change to your needs it shipped with
# FreeNX under the name nxcheckload.sample.

LOAD_BALANCE_ALGORITHM="load"

</pre>
=== How it gets called ===
When a client connect, the NX load balancer will run the nxcheckload command, with an argument $1, which will be the server name. It is the job of the script to return a number associated with the "load" of the server in question. 

Whichever server has the lowest number, wins.

=== Examples ===

The script runs on the load balancer, '''not''' on the slave node. This means that your nxcheckload script must somehow make a remote call to the nodes. This could be done through your means of choice (ssh, netcat, tcpwrappers, etc)

Here is one example:
<pre>
#!/bin/sh
#
# nxcheckload - sample script for calculation of the load for a node.
#
# Version 0.5
#
# Under GPL
#
# Jonathan "Arrouan" ROUZAUD-CORNABAS (rouzaud.jonathan@gmail.com)
#
# Fabian Franz <FreeNX@fabian-franz.de>
#
# 0.5
#  - Rewrote huge parts
#
# Change between 0.3 and 0.4
#   - Add of TMP_FILE
#   - Add of lock file to avoid two run at once.
#
# Change between 0.2 and 0.3
#   - SMP support.
#

if [ "$1" != "" ]
then
	# Connect to a remote node
	
	# Note: This is a ssh sample, you'll need to tweak it for your setup
	#       and setup the secret keys for yourself.
	
	#exec $COMMAND_SSH nxcal@"$1" "$PATH_BIN/nxcheckload"
	
	# Note: This is a netcat example. You need to have nxcheckload running through 
	# netpipes or netcat like follows:
	# 	node1:~$ faucet 9876 -io $PATH_BIN/nxcheckload
	#
	# Connect to another node running the load-service on some port.
	#
	
	#exec $COMMAND_NETCAT "$1" 9876

	# Same as loadbalance_rr_random
	# pick a node by random.
	
	echo $RANDOM
	exit 0
fi

# Be sure to use C numeric for calculations
export LC_NUMERIC=C

# The 3 variables of load from uptime
LOADXX=$(awk '{ printf("(100-%s)+(100-%s)+(100-%s)\n", $1, $2, $3); }' /proc/loadavg | bc -q)

# Add of total memory and free memory
Mt=$(awk 'BEGIN { N=0 } /MemTotal|MemFree/ { N+=$2; } END { print N }' /proc/meminfo)

# NBCPU = number of CPU
NBCPU=$(cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep ^processor | wc -l)

# CPU = Mhz of the CPU
CPU=$(cat /proc/cpuinfo | grep "cpu MHz" | head -n1 | cut -d':' -f2 | cut -d' ' -f2)

# Number of Xorg already launch and running.
UNB=$(ps aux | grep Xorg | grep -v grep | wc -l)

# Final calcul of the number of load.
echo "100 * $LOADXX + $Mt + ( $NBCPU * $CPU ) / 100 + $UNB * 100" | bc -q | cut -d. -f1
</pre>

[[Category:FreeNX]]