=== Example File ===
<pre>
### Package Selection ###

# Only install the standard system and language packs.
tasksel tasksel/first   multiselect
d-i     preseed/early_command   string . /usr/share/debconf/confmodule; db_get debconf/priority; case $RET in low|medium) db_fset tasksel/first seen false ;; esac
d-i     pkgsel/language-pack-patterns   string
# No language support packages.
d-i     pkgsel/install-language-support boolean false

# No automated updates of packages.
d-i pkgsel/update-policy \
        select No automatic updates
#pkgsel pkgsel/update-policy \
#        select No automatic updates

# Ensure that the openssh server is included!
d-i pkgsel/include string openssh-server

### Localization ###

# Locale sets language and country.
d-i debian-installer/locale string en_US.UTF-8

# Keyboard selection.
d-i console-keymaps-at/keymap select us


### Network configuration ###

# netcfg will choose an interface that has link if possible. This makes it
# skip displaying a list if there is more than one interface.
d-i netcfg/choose_interface select auto

# Any hostname and domain names assigned from dhcp take precedence over
# values set here. However, setting the values still prevents the questions
# from being shown, even if values come from dhcp.
d-i netcfg/get_hostname string unassigned-hostname
d-i netcfg/get_domain string unassigned-domain

# Disable that annoying WEP key dialog.
d-i netcfg/wireless_wep string


### Mirror settings ###

# If you select ftp, the mirror/country string does not need to be set.
d-i mirror/country string enter information manually
d-i mirror/http/hostname string fr.archive.ubuntu.com
d-i mirror/http/directory string /ubuntu/
d-i mirror/http/proxy string


### Partitioning ###

# Alternatively, you can specify a disk to partition. The device name must
# be given in traditional non-devfs format.
# Note: A disk must be specified, unless the system has only one disk.
# For example, to use the first SCSI/SATA hard disk:
d-i partman-auto/select_disk string /dev/sda
# In addition, you'll need to specify the method to use.
# The presently available methods are: "regular", "lvm" and "crypto"
d-i partman-auto/method string lvm

# If one of the disks that are going to be automatically partitioned
# contains an old LVM configuration, the user will normally receive a
# warning. This can be preseeded away...
d-i partman-lvm/device_remove_lvm boolean true
# The same applies to pre-existing software RAID array:
d-i partman-md/device_remove_md boolean true
# And the same goes for the confirmation to write the lvm partitions.
d-i partman-lvm/confirm boolean true

# For LVM partitioning, you can select how much of the volume group to use
# for logical volumes.
d-i partman-auto-lvm/guided_size string max

# You can choose one of the three predefined partitioning recipes:
# - atomic: all files in one partition
# - home:   separate /home partition
# - multi:  separate /home, /usr, /var, and /tmp partitions
d-i partman-auto/choose_recipe select multi

# If you just want to change the default filesystem from ext3 to something
# else, you can do that without providing a full recipe.
#d-i partman/default_filesystem string ext4

# This makes partman automatically partition without confirmation, provided
# that you told it what to do using one of the methods above.
d-i partman/confirm_write_new_label boolean true
d-i partman/choose_partition select finish
d-i partman/confirm boolean true
d-i partman/confirm_nooverwrite boolean true

partman-partitioning partman-partitioning/unknown_label boolean true
partman-partitioning partman-partitioning/confirm_new_label boolean true
partman-partitioning partman-partitioning/confirm_write_new_label boolean true

### Clock and time zone setup ###

# Controls whether or not the hardware clock is set to UTC.
d-i clock-setup/utc boolean true

# You may set this to any valid setting for $TZ; see the contents of
# /usr/share/zoneinfo/ for valid values.
d-i time/zone string UTC

### Account setup
# Skip creation of a root account (normal user account will be able to
# use sudo).
#d-i passwd/root-login boolean false

# Root password, either in clear text
d-i passwd/root-password password (kskde-)
d-i passwd/root-password-again password (kskde-)
# or encrypted using an MD5 hash.
#d-i passwd/root-password-crypted password 63cec673aad545ed6f13fc939ca6788b

# Enable shadow passwords.
user-setup-udeb passwd/shadow boolean true

# Allow root login.
user-setup-udeb passwd/root-login boolean true

# User parameters.
d-i passwd/make-user boolean false
user-setup-udeb passwd/make-user boolean false
user-setup-udeb passwd/user-fullname string user
user-setup-udeb passwd/username string user
user-setup-udeb passwd/user-password string (kskde-)
user-setup-udeb passwd/user-password-again string (kskde-)
user-setup-udeb user-setup/encrypt-home boolean false
user-setup-udeb user-setup/password-weak boolean false

### Boot loader installation ###

# This is fairly safe to set, it makes grub install automatically to the MBR
# if no other operating system is detected on the machine.
d-i grub-installer/only_debian boolean true

# This one makes grub-installer install to the MBR if it also finds some other
# OS, which is less safe as it might not be able to boot that other OS.
d-i grub-installer/with_other_os boolean true

### Finishing up the first stage install ###

# Avoid that last message about the install being complete.
d-i finish-install/reboot_in_progress note


### Running custom commands during the installation ###

# d-i preseeding is inherently not secure. Nothing in the installer checks
# for attempts at buffer overflows or other exploits of the values of a
# preconfiguration file like this one. Only use preconfiguration files from
# trusted locations! To drive that home, and because it's generally useful,
# here's a way to run any shell command you'd like inside the installer,
# automatically.

# This first command is run as early as possible, just after
# preseeding is read.
#d-i preseed/early_command string anna-install some-udeb

# This command is run just before the install finishes, but when there is
# still a usable /target directory. You can chroot to /target and use it
# directly, or use the apt-install and in-target commands to easily install
# packages and run commands in the target system.
#d-i preseed/late_command string apt-install zsh; in-target chsh -s /bin/zsh
</pre>

=== Additional PXE Glue ===
Put this additional lines in your [[Pxe]] default file
 LABEL ubuntu
 KERNEL ubuntu/linux
 APPEND tasks=standard debian-installer/locale=en_US kbd-chooser/method=us console-setup/layoutcode=us  netcfg/choose_interface=auto netcfg/get_hostname= pkgsel/install-language-support=false vga=normal initrd=ubuntu/initrd.gz auto preseed/url=http://thispreseedfile.cfg

== References ==
* [http://wikitech-static.wikimedia.org/articles/u/b/u/Ubuntu_installer.html http://wikitech-static.wikimedia.org/articles/u/b/u/Ubuntu_installer.html]
* [http://www.debian.org/releases/lenny/example-preseed.txt http://www.debian.org/releases/lenny/example-preseed.txt]
* [http://stratuslab.eu/doku.php?id=tutoral:examplepreseed http://stratuslab.eu/doku.php?id=tutoral:examplepreseed]

[[Category:Kickstart]][[Category:Preseed]][[Category:PXE]][[Category:Debian]][[Category:Linux]]